v1.8.0 changelogs (#64)
meilisearch/engine-team: meilisearch-release-changelog/v1.8.0.md

🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features. Consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and updates 🔥

## Hybrid search

Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677).

Done by @dureuill and @jakobklemm in #4456, #4537, #4509, #4548, #4549.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes: `_semanticScore`

To increase search response times and reduce bandwidth usage:

> * Meilisearch no longer returns the `vector` field will in the search response

Author: ```suggestion
* Meilisearch no longer returns the `_vectors` field will in the search response
```

> * Meilisearch no longer returns the `_vectors` field will in the search response

Author: ```suggestion
* Meilisearch no longer returns the `vector` field will in the search response
```

    "mean": 0.7, // mean value
    "sigma": 0.3 // variance
  }
}
```

### Other hybrid search improvements

* Hide the API key in settings and task queue (#4533) @dureuill
* Return keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding when performing hybrid searches (#4548) @dureuill
* For hybrid or semantic search requests, add a `semanticHitCount` field at the top of the search response indicating the number of hits originating from the semantic search (#4548) @dureuill

## New feature: Negative keywords

Search queries can now contain a negative keyword to exclude terms from the search. Use the `-` operator in front of a word or a phrase to make sure no document that contains those words are shown in the results:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/places/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "-escape room" }'
```

- `-escape` returns any document that does not contain `escape`
- `-escape room` returns documents containing `room` but not `escape`
- `-"on demand"` returns any document that does not contain `"on demand"`

Done by @Kerollmops in #4535.

## Search robustness updates

> ### Search cut-off

Author: ```suggestion
### Search cutoff
```

# Misc

* Dependency updates
  * Bump mio from 0.8.9 to 0.8.11 (#4457)
  * Upgrade rustls to 0.21.10 and ring to 0.17 (#4400) @hack3ric
* CIs and tests
  * Add automation to create openAPI issues (#4520) @curquiza
  * Add tests to check when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire
  * Allow running benchmarks without sending results to the dashboard (#4475) @dureuill
  * Create automation when creating GitHub milestones to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza
  * Fix reason param when benches are triggered from a comment (#4483) @dureuill
* Documentation
  * Fix milli link in contributing doc (#4499) @mohsen-alizadeh
  * Fix some typos in comments (#4546) @redistay
  * Remove repetitive words in Benchmark docs (#4526) @availhang
  * Remove repetitive words in code-base comments (#4491) @shuangcui
  * Update sprint_issue.md (#4516) @curquiza
  * Add documentation for benchmarks (#4477) @dureuill
  * Fix typos (#4542) @brunoocasali
* Misc
  * Update cargo version (#4474) @curquiza
  * Remove useless analytics (#4578) @irevoire

>   * Fix milli/Cargo.toml for usage as dependency via git (#4547) @Toromyx

Author: ```suggestion
  * Fix milli/Cargo.toml for usage as dependency via git (#4547) @Toromyx
  * Remove useless analytics (#4578) @irevoire
```

# Misc

* Dependency updates
  * Bump mio from 0.8.9 to 0.8.11 (#4457)
  * Upgrade rustls to 0.21.10 and ring to 0.17 (#4400) @hack3ric
* CIs and tests
  * Add automation to create openAPI issues (#4520) @curquiza
  * Add tests to check when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire
  * Allow running benchmarks without sending results to the dashboard (#4475) @dureuill
  * Create automation when creating GitHub milestones to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza
  * Fix reason param when benches are triggered from a comment (#4483) @dureuill
* Documentation
  * Fix milli link in contributing doc (#4499) @mohsen-alizadeh
  * Fix some typos in comments (#4546) @redistay
  * Remove repetitive words in Benchmark docs (#4526) @availhang
  * Remove repetitive words in code-base comments (#4491) @shuangcui
  * Update sprint_issue.md (#4516) @curquiza
  * Add documentation for benchmarks (#4477) @dureuill
  * Fix typos (#4542) @brunoocasali
* Misc
  * Update cargo version (#4474) @curquiza
  * Remove useless analytics (#4578) @irevoire
  * Fix milli/Cargo.toml for usage as dependency via git (#4547) @Toromyx

>   * Remove useless analytics (#4578) @irevoire

Author: ```suggestion
```

# v1.8.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.8 introduces new changes and optimizations related to the Hybrid search with the addition of new models and embedders like REST embedders and the Ollama model. This version also focuses on stability by adding more security around the search requests. Finally, we introduce the negative operator to exclude specific terms from a search query.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->

> 🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Author: Yes still true. I mean the situation did not change, we do the same.
We update the all integrations to ensure there is no breaking -> you can still use the SDK with the new version of Meilisearch. But we don't implement ALL features in ALL SDKs. And even before the layoff we did not implement all the features in all SDKs

> 🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Reviewer: ok, sounds good! Just wanted to check since I don't always review these default bits and thought it was a good idea to verify everything is still accurate.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Hybrid search improvements

> Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

Author: Yes please, the changelog is not exhausitve about examples and usage, I would like this link to appear 😊

> Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

Reviewer: Updated my suggestion. When I'm back we could perhaps have a chat about what information the usage document has that is missing from the docs. I think we'd ideally always direct users to the docs instead of the PRDs.

> Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

Author: If the docs are fully exhaustive and cover the full feature, I'm ok to not link the PRD 😊 
Is it the case for hybrid search?

  "inputField": ["data", "text"],
  // ☝️ inject texts in data.text in the query
  // Optional, defaults to []
  "inputType": "text", // text or textArray
  // ☝️ inject a single text
  // Optional, defaults to text
  "query": {
    // A JSON object describing other fields to send in a query
    // for example
    "model": "name-of-your-model",
    "dimensions": 512
  },
  // ☝️ A JSON object describing other fields to send in a query
  // Optional, defaults to {}
  "pathToEmbeddings": ["data"],
  // ☝️ look at embeddings in "data" in the response
  // Optional, defaults to []
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
  // ☝️ look at the embedding inside of "embedding"
  // Optional, defaults to []
}
```

Here is an example of setting OpenAI embedder with the `rest` source:

```json5
{
  "source": "rest",
  "apiKey": "<your-openai-api-key>",
  "dimensions": 1536,
  "url": "https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings",
  "query": {
    "model": "text-embedding-ada-002"
  },
  "inputField": ["input"],
  "inputType": "textArray",
  "pathToEmbeddings": ["data"],
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
}
```

**Ollama model**

Here is how to set up the Ollama model:

```json5
"default": {

>   "source": "ollama", // 👈 Use the REST source

Author: ```suggestion
  "source": "ollama", // 👈 Use the Ollama source
```

  "url": "http://localhost:11434/api/embeddings",
  // ☝️ optional, fetched from MEILI_OLLAMA_URL environment variable if missing
  "apiKey": "<foobarbaz>",
  // ☝️ optional
  "model": "nomic-embed-text",
  "documentTemplate": "blabla" // like for openAI and huggingFace sources
}

```

> ### Expose the `distribution` shift setting
> 
> When setting an embedder, you can now set the `distribution` shift.
> 
> ```json5
> "default": {
>   "source": "huggingFace", // supported for any source
>   "model": "some/model",
>   "distribution": {  // describes the natural distribution of results
>     "mean": 0.7, // mean value
>     "sigma": 0.3 // variance
>   }
> }
> ```
> 
> The “distribution shift” is an affine transformation applied to the `_rankingScore` of a **semantic** search result with the aim of making the comparison to the `_rankingScore` of a **keyword** search result more meaningful.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### New embedder setting: `distribution`

Use `distribution` to apply an affine transformation to the `_rankingScore` of **semantic** search results. This can help to compare `_rankingScore`s of semantic and keyword search results and improve result ranking.

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "huggingFace",
  "model": "MODEL_NAME",
  "distribution": {  // describes the natural distribution of results
    "mean": 0.7, // mean value
    "sigma": 0.3 // variance
  }
}
```
````

### Other hybrid search improvements

> * Hide the API key in settings and task queue (#4533) @dureuill

Reviewer: Isn't this more of a general thing instead of hybrid search specific?

Author: Nope, really hybrid search related since API key actions are not async tasks. Only the `embedder` settings required to be in the index settings so can be an async task in the task queue

Reviewer: Wait, which API key are talking about? The embedder's API key or Meilisearch's API key? Or both?

Author: You asked if it's a general thing instead of hybrid search specific -> it's hybrid search specific.

We don't hide any other API keys in other part of Meilisearch. It's still the same. Only API key on `embedder` settings are hidden in the task queue now

> * Return the keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding (#4548) @dureuill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Return keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding when performing hybrid searches (#4548) @dureuill
```

* For hybrid or semantic search requests, add a `semanticHitCount` field at the top of the search response indicating the number of hits originating from the semantic search (#4548) @dureuill

> ## Support negative keyword when searching
> 
> Search queries can now contain a negative keyword to exclude terms from the search. Use the `-` operator in front of a word or a phrase to make sure no document that contains those words are shown in the results.
> 
> - `-escape` returns a placeholder search without any document contains the `escape` word.
> - `-escape room` returns only documents containing the `room` word but not the `escape` one.
> - `-"on demand"` returns a placeholder search but without any document containing the `"on demand"` phrase.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
## New feature: Negative keywords

Search queries can now contain a negative keyword to exclude terms from the search. Use the `-` operator in front of a word or a phrase to make sure no document that contains those words are shown in the results:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/places/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "-escape room" }'
```

- `-escape` returns any document that does not contain `escape`
- `-escape room` returns documents containing `room` but not `escape`
- `-"on demand"` returns any document that does not contain `"on demand"`
````

Done by @Kerollmops in #4535.

> ## Search robustness improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Search robustness updates
```

### Add a search cutoff

To avoid any crash and performance issues, Meilisearch now stops search requests lasting more than 150ms.

> If you want to customize this value, you can update the `search_cutoff` settings (value in ms):

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to customize this value, you can update the `searchCutoffMs` settings (value in ms):
```

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{

>     "search_cutoff": 50

Author: ```suggestion
    "searchCutoffMs": 50
```

  }'
```

> The default value of the `search_cutoff` setting is `null` and corresponds to 150ms.

Author: ```suggestion
The default value of the `searchCutoffMs` setting is `null` and corresponds to 150ms.
```

> ### Add a search cutoff
> 
> To avoid any crash and performance issues, Meilisearch now stops search requests lasting more than 150ms.
> 
> If you want to customize this value, you can update the `searchCutoffMs` settings (value in ms):
> 
> ```bash
> curl \
>   -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
>   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
>   --data-binary '{
>     "searchCutoffMs": 50
>   }'
> ```
> 
> The default value of the `searchCutoffMs` setting is `null` and corresponds to 150ms.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
### Search cut-off

To avoid crashes and performance issues, Meilisearch now interrupts search requests that take more than 150ms to complete.

Use the `/settings` endpoint to customize this value:

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "searchCutoffMs": 50
  }'
```

The default value of the `searchCutoffMs` setting is `null` and corresponds to a 150ms timeout.
````

Done by @irevoire in #4466.

> ### Limit concurrent search requests
> 
> Meilisearch now limits the number of search requests waiting to be processed to avoid consuming an unbounded amount of RAM and crashing. So a queue of search requests waiting to be processed has been introduced.
> 
> 👉 This change does NOT impact the search performance, but only the number of enqueued search requests to prevent from any security issues.
> 
> The default number of requests in the queue is 1000.
> 
> To change this limit, use the experimental CLI flag:
> 
> ```bash
> ./meilisearch --experimental-search-queue-size 100
> ```
> 
> 🗣️ This is an experimental flag and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/729).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Search request queue

This release introduces a queue for search requests to prevent Meilisearch from consuming an unbounded amount of RAM and crashing.

The default number of requests in the queue is 1000. Relaunch your self-hosted instance with `--experimental-search-queue-size` to change this limit:

```bash
./meilisearch --experimental-search-queue-size 100
```

👉 This limit does NOT impact the search performance. It only affects the number of enqueued search requests to prevent security issues.

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/729).
```

Done by @irevoire in #4536

## Other improvements

* Increase indexing speed when updating settings (#4504) @ManyTheFish -> TBD: still in review or merged?
* The `sortFacetValuesBy` setting now impacts the `/facet-search` route (#4476) @Kerollmops

> * Related to [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): add `status` code label to the HTTP request counter (#4373) @rohankmr414

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): add `status` code label to the HTTP request counter (#4373) @rohankmr414
```

* Tokenizer improvements by bumping charabia to 0.8.8 (#4511) @6543
  * Support markdown formatted code blocks
  * Improve Korean segmentation to correctly use the context ID registered in the dictionary

# Fixes 🐞

> * Related to [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): fix the HTTP request duration histogram bucket boundaries to follow the OpenTelemetry spec (#4530) @rohankmr414

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): fix the HTTP request duration histogram bucket boundaries to follow the OpenTelemetry spec (#4530) @rohankmr414
```

> * Related to [Hybrid search experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677): fix an [error on Windows](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/4399) when generating embeddings (#4549) @dureuill

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Hybrid search experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677): fix an [error on Windows](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/4399) when generating embeddings (#4549) @dureuill
```

# Misc

> * Dependencies upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Dependency updates
```

  * Bump mio from 0.8.9 to 0.8.11 (#4457)
  * Upgrade rustls to 0.21.10 and ring to 0.17 (#4400) @hack3ric
* CIs and tests

>   * Add automation to create openAPI issue (#4520) @curquiza

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Add automation to create openAPI issues (#4520) @curquiza
```

>   * Add tests when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Add tests to check when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire
```

  * Allow running benchmarks without sending results to the dashboard (#4475) @dureuill

>   * Create automation when creating Milestone to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Create automation when creating GitHub milestones to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza
```

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump mio from 0.8.9 to 0.8.11 (#4457)
  * Upgrade rustls to 0.21.10 and ring to 0.17 (#4400) @hack3ric
* CIs and tests
  * Add automation to create openAPI issue (#4520) @curquiza
  * Add tests when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire
  * Allow running benchmarks without sending results to the dashboard (#4475) @dureuill
  * Create automation when creating Milestone to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza
  * Fix reason param when benches are triggered from a comment (#4483) @dureuill
* Documentation
  * Fix milli link in contributing doc (#4499) @mohsen-alizadeh
  * Fix some typos in comments (#4546) @redistay
  * Remove repetitive words in Benchmark docs (#4526) @availhang
  * Remove repetitive words in code-base comments (#4491) @shuangcui
  * Update sprint_issue.md (#4516) @curquiza
  * Add documentation for benchmarks (#4477) @dureuill
  * Fix typos (#4542) @brunoocasali
* Misc
  * Update cargo version (#4474) @curquiza
  * Fix milli/Cargo.toml for usage as dependency via git (#4547) @Toromyx

> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

Meilisearch v1.8 introduces new changes and optimizations related to the Hybrid search with the addition of new models and embedders like REST embedders and the Ollama model. This version also focuses on stability by adding more security around the search requests. Finally, we introduce the negative operator to exclude specific terms from a search query.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Hybrid search improvements

> Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://www.notion.so/meilisearch/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42#d9d12899e15b4f00a19b247cf6f4bdcc).

Reviewer 2: This is not the public link!

```suggestion
Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).
```

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677).

Done by @dureuill and @jakobklemm in #4456, #4537, #4509, #4548, #4549.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes of hybrid search usage

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> * To ease the search answer speed, Meilisearch no longer returns the query vector in the search response. The `vector` field will not be displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To ease the search answer speed and bandwidth, Meilisearch no longer returns the query vector in the search response. The `vector` field will not be displayed.
```

* `_semanticScore` is no longer returned in the search response. The `_rankingScore` field has the same value as the `_semanticScore`, and should be used in its place. To get the `_rankingScore` value, add `"showRankingScore": true` to the search query.

> * When adding `"showRankingScoreDetails": true` to a semantic search query, the vector and its `value` are no longer displayed to improve the search speed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When adding `"showRankingScoreDetails": true` to a semantic search query, the vector and its `value` are no longer displayed to improve the search speed and bandwidth use.
```

}
```

Here is an example of setting OpenAI embedder with the `rest` source:

```json5
{
  "source": "rest",
  "apiKey": "<your-openai-api-key>",
  "dimensions": 1536,
  "url": "https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings",
  "query": {
    "model": "text-embedding-ada-002"
  },
  "inputField": ["input"],
  "inputType": "textArray",
  "pathToEmbeddings": ["data"],
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
}
```

**Ollama model**

Here is how to set up the Ollama model:

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "ollama", // 👈 Use the REST source
  "url": "http://localhost:11434/api/embeddings",
  // ☝️ optional, fetched from MEILI_OLLAMA_URL environment variable if missing
  "apiKey": "<foobarbaz>",
  // ☝️ optional
  "model": "nomic-embed-text",
  "documentTemplate": "blabla" // like for openAI and huggingFace sources
}

```

### Expose the `distribution` shift setting

When setting an embedder, you can now set the `distribution` shift.

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "huggingFace", // supported for any source
  "model": "some/model",
  "distribution": {  // describes the natural distribution of results
    "mean": 0.7, // mean value
    "sigma": 0.3 // variance
  }
}
```

> The “distribution shift” is an affine transformation applied to the `semanticScore` of a vector search result with the aim of making the comparison to the `rankingScore` of a keyword search result more meaningful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The “distribution shift” is an affine transformation applied to the `_rankingScore` of a **semantic** search result with the aim of making the comparison to the `_rankingScore` of a **keyword** search result more meaningful.
```

### Other hybrid search improvements

* Hide the API key in settings and task queue (#4533) @dureuill
* Return the keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding (#4548) @dureuill

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TBD: in review? For hybrid or semantic search requests, add a `semanticHitCount` field at the top of the search response indicating the number of hits originating from the semantic search (#4548) @dureuill

```

If you want to customize this value, you can update the `search_cutoff` settings (value in ms):

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "search_cutoff": 50
  }'
```

The default value of the `search_cutoff` setting is `null` and corresponds to 150ms.

Done by @irevoire in #4466.

### Limit concurrent search requests

Meilisearch now limits the number of search requests waiting to be processed to avoid consuming an unbounded amount of RAM and crashing. So a queue of search requests waiting to be processed has been introduced.

👉 This change does NOT impact the search performance, but only the number of enqueued search requests to prevent from any security issues.

The default number of requests in the queue is 1000.

To change this limit, use the experimental CLI flag:

```bash
./meilisearch --experimental-search-queue-size 100
```

🗣️ This is an experimental flag and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/729).

Done by @irevoire in #4536

## Other improvements

> * Reduce indexing speed when updating settings (#4504) @ManyTheFish -> TBD: still in review or merged?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Increase indexing speed when updating settings (#4504) @ManyTheFish -> TBD: still in review or merged?
```

I guess?

Author: 😂 yes!!

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Hybrid search improvements

Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677).

Done by @dureuill and @jakobklemm in #4456, #4537, #4509, #4548, #4549.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes of hybrid search usage

> TBD: still in review?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This landed 👍

**Ollama model**

Here is how to set up the Ollama model:

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "ollama", // 👈 Use the REST source
  "url": "http://localhost:11434/api/embeddings",
  // ☝️ optional, fetched from MEILI_OLLAMA_URL environment variable if missing
  "apiKey": "<foobarbaz>",
  // ☝️ optional
  "model": "nomic-embed-text",
  "documentTemplate": "blabla" // like for openAI and huggingFace sources
}

```

### Expose the `distribution` shift setting

When setting an embedder, you can now set the `distribution` shift.

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "huggingFace", // supported for any source
  "model": "some/model",
  "distribution": {  // describes the natural distribution of results
    "mean": 0.7, // mean value
    "sigma": 0.3 // variance
  }
}
```

The “distribution shift” is an affine transformation applied to the `_rankingScore` of a **semantic** search result with the aim of making the comparison to the `_rankingScore` of a **keyword** search result more meaningful.

### Other hybrid search improvements

* Hide the API key in settings and task queue (#4533) @dureuill
* Return the keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding (#4548) @dureuill

> * TBD: in review? For hybrid or semantic search requests, add a `semanticHitCount` field at the top of the search response indicating the number of hits originating from the semantic search (#4548) @dureuill

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For hybrid or semantic search requests, add a `semanticHitCount` field at the top of the search response indicating the number of hits originating from the semantic search (#4548) @dureuill
```

Landed 😁
